Add `ticloud connect` doc (#12399)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/ticloud-connect.md

---
title: ticloud connect
summary: The reference of `ticloud connect`.
---

# ticloud connect

Connect to a TiDB Cloud cluster:

```shell
ticloud connect [flags]
```

> **Note:**
>

> > The connection forces the ANSI SQL mode for the session.
> You can get more information about the ANSI SQL mode from [ANSI SQL mode](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/sql-mode.html#sqlmode_ansi)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The connection forces the [ANSI SQL mode](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/sql-mode.html#sqlmode_ansi) mode for the session.
```

## Examples

Connect to a TiDB Cloud cluster in interactive mode:

```shell
ticloud connect
```

> Use the default user to connect to a TiDB Cloud cluster in non-interactive mode:

Reviewer: What is the default user? The root user?

Author: For dedicated, it is root. For serverless, it is root with prefixes, such as "SfgdsWRdfs342.root"

Author: If they use CLI to create the cluster, there is a step to set the password for the root user.
If they want to reset the password, they need to go to the TiDB Cloud console.

> > - The connection forces the [ANSI SQL mode](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/sql-mode.html#sqlmode_ansi) mode for the session. To exit the session, enter `\q`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> - The connection forces the [ANSI SQL mode](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/sql-mode.html#sqlmode_ansi) for the session. To exit the session, enter `\q`.
```

```shell
ticloud connect -p <project-id> -c <cluster-id>
```

> Use a specific user to connect to the TiDB Cloud cluster in non-interactive mode:

Reviewer: Do customers need to create the specific user in advance?

Author: Yes

```shell
ticloud connect -p <project-id> -c <cluster-id> -u <user-name>
```

## Flags

> In non-interactive mode, you need to manually enter required flags. In interactive mode, you can just follow CLI prompts to fill in them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In non-interactive mode, you need to manually enter the required flags. In interactive mode, you can just follow CLI prompts to fill in them.
```

| Flag                    | Description                                      | Required | Note                                                 |
|-------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|----------|------------------------------------------------------|
| -c, --cluster-id string | Cluster ID                                       | Yes      | Only works in non-interactive mode.                  |
| -h, --help              | Help information for this command                | No       | Works in both non-interactive and interactive modes. |
| -p, --project-id string | Project ID                                       | Yes      | Only works in non-interactive mode.                  |

> | -u, --user string       | The user for login if not using the default user | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| -u, --user string       | A specific user for login | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode.                  |
```

## Inherited flags

| Flag                 | Description                                                                                          | Required | Note                                                                                                                     |
|----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | --no-color           | Disables color in output.                                                                            | No       | Only works in the non-interactive mode. In the interactive mode, disabling color might not work with some UI components. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| --no-color           | Disables color in output.                                                                            | No       | Only works in non-interactive mode. In interactive mode, disabling color might not work with some UI components. |
```

Reviewer: @xuanyu66  Would you please also update other places for this sentence?

| -P, --profile string | Specifies the active [user profile](/tidb-cloud/cli-reference.md#user-profile) used in this command. | No       | Works in both non-interactive and interactive modes.                                                                     |

## Feedback

> If you have any questions or suggestions on the TiDB Cloud CLI, feel free to create an [issue](https://github.com/tidbcloud/tidbcloud-cli/issues/new/choose). Also, we welcome any contributions.

Author: Later, I will write contribute guide, and link them
